milestone 1 - proof of concept.md, before:


# Milestone 1 - Proof Of Concept Presentation (draft check back later)

For the first milestone (due on 16/02/2024) you are required to provide a proof of concept of your project. By the due date you should have created a scenario that exercises the various parts of your application (e.g. client, server, DB, external resources, etc.), one or more personas and you should be able to demonstrate the primary use case and novel contribution of the whole project. You are expected to show an **End-to-End demo of your primary feature and initial MVP**. Following this presentation, we will provide some guidelines for the work ahead:

### 1. Project Hosting

Host your project at [GitHub](https://github.com/repositories/new), this will serve as your project home page:

- All source code should be pushed to the repository you created.
- Documentation (usage instructions, screenshots, etc...) should be put in their appropriate place (README.md / Wiki tab / Project Home). Additional details on project documentation available on this [doc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1xppHNvDtQkChSqaZQI7FCG5J9GSH-iyi/edit?usp=sharing&ouid=100275977608446609845&rtpof=true&sd=true).
- Features, bugs, and the project road-map should be administered using the **Issues** and the **Projects** tabs in GitHub.
- License: choose the one that suits you best ([this](http://choosealicense.com/) might help), if you can't decide choose Apache V2.

### 2. Feature List

Please provide a short list of your top priority features (sorted from the most important to the least). This list should be published as soon as possible on the project web site in the **Issues section** so all team members and the course staff would be on the same page with respect to your project progress and planning. 

For each feature, state: its name, due date (milestone 1 / milestone 2 / final submission / nice to have), current status, and estimated time needed for completion.

For example:
```
- Feature name: Where did you park your car?
- Description: A Google map in which one could locate where he/she parks the family car.
- Requires: Adding logic to the server, working with Google maps API, adding client side support.
- Due: Milestone 2.
- Status: Server side ready, other parts are missing.
- Time Estimation: 12 hours.
```
<br>
Use the standard issue tracker (GitHub Issues), as that will assist you on deciding what to do next. Every decision (as well as your grade) should be derived from this list. Always work only on the next top priority feature not done. The features should be justified by the expected use cases of your product and by the innovation of the features. Stay focused - do not spend time on re-implementing existing functionality, use mocks and stubs as much as possible in order to focus on the main things.
We are interested only in the short list. You may also have another more detailed list for your own use.

It is important to try and estimate the complexity of the various feature as soon as possible so we'd be able to estimate what could be done till the end of the semester. In order to accomplish that you should add *time estimations* for all your features in the feature list and every time you work on a feature check how long it *actually* took. After doing so for several features you'll improve your ability to estimate a given task.

### 3. Product Page

Please provide on your main product page (GitHub repository) a link to your live application or app (web-site / download URL). Although it may not be fully functioning as a MVP until Milestone 2, it is important to be able to know what the *real* status of the final product is at any given point. 

### 4. Persona and Scenario

Please provide a description of one or more personas, as well as one or more scenarios to motivate and illustrate the feature(s) in your MVP. 

### 5. Milestone 1 Presentation (Proof of Concept)

Prepare a **10-minute** presentation:

- [5 minutes] Start with a live demo that shows what you have accomplished so far.
    - Focus on the application's main use-case(s) that highlight its novelty and contribution and refer to the persona(s) and scenario(s) you developed.
    - If a live demo is impossible, show a demo video (this may be the case if you recently pivoted).
    - Make sure you have a backup for the demo (either video or screenshots).
- [5 minutes] Continue with a short presentation of: 
    - Your feature list (2 minutes: what is done? which features are expected? how long do you expect the work will take?) 
    - Your road map (1 minute: what to expect in the future milestones? how does it differ from the original estimation?)
    - Your progress and group reflection what you have learned (2 minutes: how did you split the work among the group, who did what? what was easy? what was difficult? why? See [here for some ideas](https://www.atlassian.com/blog/jira-software/5-fun-sprint-retrospective-ideas-templates) for your group reflection) 


 ⚠️ **Also, please send us via message on Slack (your private group channel): the presentation, a summary document of the above (progress, feature list, road map), group reflection, and a link to your GitHub repository.**

**Important note:** Full grading for the milestone (15 points) will be given for teams that successfully:

1. Focus on the primary use case and take into account our feedback (feedback summary will be sent to you via Slack message; access to each group's doc restricted to team members and mentors).
2. Follow the project plan while adapting dynamically and documentation of your project and your progress.
3. Continuously work throughout the semester.
4. Demonstrate an interesting, self contained, primary use case of your application that has value.
5. Give a good presentation (simple, clear, focused, time-framed, sincere).
6. Reflect on your progress and feedback.

If you have any questions please do not wait for the milestone meeting, please reach out to us on Slack.

Good luck!

Commit message:

Update milestone 1 - proof of concept.md
Allow other issue trackers

milestone 1 - proof of concept.md, after:


# Milestone 1 - Proof Of Concept Presentation (draft check back later)

For the first milestone (due on 16/02/2024) you are required to provide a proof of concept of your project. By the due date you should have created a scenario that exercises the various parts of your application (e.g. client, server, DB, external resources, etc.), one or more personas and you should be able to demonstrate the primary use case and novel contribution of the whole project. You are expected to show an **End-to-End demo of your primary feature and initial MVP**. Following this presentation, we will provide some guidelines for the work ahead:

### 1. Project Hosting

Host your project at [GitHub](https://github.com/repositories/new), this will serve as your project home page:

- All source code should be pushed to the repository you created.
- Documentation (usage instructions, screenshots, etc...) should be put in their appropriate place (README.md / Wiki tab / Project Home). Additional details on project documentation available on this [doc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1xppHNvDtQkChSqaZQI7FCG5J9GSH-iyi/edit?usp=sharing&ouid=100275977608446609845&rtpof=true&sd=true).
- Features, bugs, and the project road-map should be administered using the **Issues** and the **Projects** tabs in GitHub.
- If you wish to use a different issue tracker, please make sure you let us know (via Slack) and also clearly document this on your GitHub page and add links to other tools you are using to track your work. 
- License: choose the one that suits you best ([this](http://choosealicense.com/) might help), if you can't decide choose Apache V2.

### 2. Feature List

Please provide a short list of your top priority features (sorted from the most important to the least). This list should be published as soon as possible on the project web site in the **Issues section** so all team members and the course staff would be on the same page with respect to your project progress and planning. 

For each feature, state: its name, due date (milestone 1 / milestone 2 / final submission / nice to have), current status, and estimated time needed for completion.

For example:
```
- Feature name: Where did you park your car?
- Description: A Google map in which one could locate where he/she parks the family car.
- Requires: Adding logic to the server, working with Google maps API, adding client side support.
- Due: Milestone 2.
- Status: Server side ready, other parts are missing.
- Time Estimation: 12 hours.
```
<br>
Use the standard issue tracker (GitHub Issues), as that will assist you on deciding what to do next. Every decision (as well as your grade) should be derived from this list. Always work only on the next top priority feature not done. The features should be justified by the expected use cases of your product and by the innovation of the features. Stay focused - do not spend time on re-implementing existing functionality, use mocks and stubs as much as possible in order to focus on the main things.
We are interested only in the short list. You may also have another more detailed list for your own use.

It is important to try and estimate the complexity of the various feature as soon as possible so we'd be able to estimate what could be done till the end of the semester. In order to accomplish that you should add *time estimations* for all your features in the feature list and every time you work on a feature check how long it *actually* took. After doing so for several features you'll improve your ability to estimate a given task.

Note: If you want to use an issue tracker other than GitHub Issues, please ensure you have clarified this (see point 1 above). 

### 3. Product Page

Please provide on your main product page (GitHub repository) a link to your live application or app (web-site / download URL). Although it may not be fully functioning as a MVP until Milestone 2, it is important to be able to know what the *real* status of the final product is at any given point. 

### 4. Persona and Scenario

Please provide a description of one or more personas, as well as one or more scenarios to motivate and illustrate the feature(s) in your MVP. 

### 5. Milestone 1 Presentation (Proof of Concept)

Prepare a **10-minute** presentation:

- [5 minutes] Start with a live demo that shows what you have accomplished so far.
    - Focus on the application's main use-case(s) that highlight its novelty and contribution and refer to the persona(s) and scenario(s) you developed.
    - If a live demo is impossible, show a demo video (this may be the case if you recently pivoted).
    - Make sure you have a backup for the demo (either video or screenshots).
- [5 minutes] Continue with a short presentation of: 
    - Your feature list (2 minutes: what is done? which features are expected? how long do you expect the work will take?) 
    - Your road map (1 minute: what to expect in the future milestones? how does it differ from the original estimation?)
    - Your progress and group reflection what you have learned (2 minutes: how did you split the work among the group, who did what? what was easy? what was difficult? why? See [here for some ideas](https://www.atlassian.com/blog/jira-software/5-fun-sprint-retrospective-ideas-templates) for your group reflection) 


 ⚠️ **Also, please send us via message on Slack (your private group channel): the presentation, a summary document of the above (progress, feature list, road map), group reflection, and a link to your GitHub repository.**

**Important note:** Full grading for the milestone (15 points) will be given for teams that successfully:

1. Focus on the primary use case and take into account our feedback (feedback summary will be sent to you via Slack message; access to each group's doc restricted to team members and mentors).
2. Follow the project plan while adapting dynamically and documentation of your project and your progress.
3. Continuously work throughout the semester.
4. Demonstrate an interesting, self contained, primary use case of your application that has value.
5. Give a good presentation (simple, clear, focused, time-framed, sincere).
6. Reflect on your progress and feedback.

If you have any questions please do not wait for the milestone meeting, please reach out to us on Slack.

Good luck!
